These data are licensced under a Creative Commons BY-4 license and should not
be used without attribution. 

# Description of data set
To test our statistical mechanical model of gene expression, we have generated
an array of bacterial strains in which the repressor copy number and the
binding energy of the repressor to the DNA has been changed. For this homework,
your job will be to compute the fold-change in gene expresssion from these data
and fit the binding energies of the three operators using non-linear least
squares regression.

# History of strains. 
These cells were grown overnight to saturation in a very rich medium known as
Lysogeny Broth (LB). In the morning, these cells were diluted 1000 fold into a
minimial medium (M9) containing a variety of salts and 0.5% glucose by weight.
This caused the cells to grow more slowly in a physiologically relevant state.
It is in this state of growth that we quantitatively know the repressor copy
number. After around eight hours of growth, the cells were diluted once again
ten fold into more minimal medium and affixed to a glass slide coated with 2%
agarose. These images were then imaged using an epifluorescence microscope

# Information about image files.
In this data set, you are given an array of images of single bacterial cells
under phase contrast (`phase`) and YFP epifluorescence (`yfp`). Each image file
includes information regarding the lacI binding site used (operator), the copy
number of the repressors (R), the illumination of the image (`phase` or `yfp`)
and the position on the sample. They are given in the order as follows:

`OperatorNumber_RepressorCopyNumber_Illumination_Position.tif`.


There are several different operators and repressor copy numbers used in this
experiment. Their identification is 

1. Operators - O1, O2, & O3. These are the colloquial names of three different
LacI repressor binding sites in the DNA. O1 is the strongest binding sequence
whereas O3 is the weakest. 

2. Repressor Copy Number - auto, delta, R22, R60, R124, R260. These are generated by
changing the ribosomal binding site of the LacI gene.  Note that the
`auto` strain contains no YFP and should be used for your baseline subtraction.
`delta` contains no YFP and represents constitutive expression. This should be
used in your denominator for calculating fold-change. 

3. Illumination - `phase` or `yfp`. The phase images were taken using a
white light tungsten filament and give no quantitative information regarding
expression. The YFP samples were illuminated with 514 nm excitation light and
 emission was measured at around 520 nm. This channel provides quantitative
 information regarding the expression of YFP


All images were taken on an Andor iXon camera with an interpixel distance of
0.160 nm per pixel. 

Please note that all images were prefiltered using a 3x3 median filter to make
image processing less complicated. 
